Hi, everybody.
I'm here today to talk about a technology
preview of application signing.
It's a new feature for Leopard
that we've never had before.
So, wide cone signing.
We're actually beginning to get
a growing number of requests,
both internally and externally,
to identify client processes.
Not just by what user they're running as,
but actually what application
it is that's actually running.
Also, we're getting requests to be able
to validate application integrity.
Has this application been messed with?
Has it been changed?
Has somehow something within its bundle
or within its code actually been altered?
The requests have come
both from outside parties,
vendors, and also from internal parties
that have a need to know who
the client is that's asking them
for a particular piece of data.
Also,
customers are becoming very interested
in this as they want to tell whether or
not their systems still have maintained
integrity and are still secure.
So there's a little bit of
history of actually identifying
apps with the system.
Keychains have always tried to
actually identify their client apps.
Anybody that's ever updated a
system and ended up with dialogue
saying mail.app is trying to access
this particular keychain item.
perhaps it's been updated,
do you approve?
Has actually seen the keychain
subsystem trying to re-identify
an application that it knew once.
The problem was that back in that scheme,
we were always running live
hashes on applications as they
were delivered on the system.
And then we were involving users in
trying to make the relationship of,
"Hey, this is actually an application
that Apple gave to me.
Yeah, I really want to trust it."
MCX for a long time,
Managed Desktop and Parental Controls,
tried using the CFBundle name
for a while to say,
"Do you want to allow your children
or kids in a lab or people within
an organization to run particular
applications?" That was actually ended up
getting thwarted by eight-year-olds that
were smart enough to understand they just
needed to change CFBundle names of their
WOW application or something like that,
and they could actually run it anyways.
Some people have tried using paths.
Everybody's trying to do various things,
and really what we decided to
do was try to solve this problem
in a more generic fashion.
So PKI use, or X.509 certificates,
have quite a history here at Apple,
or a history over the Mac OS X timeframe,
of being an actual system
provided piece of functionality.
In Jaguar,
the keychain subsystem included basic
PKI and SSL functionality through
our secure transport libraries.
That was actually used
later in our first client,
which was Safari,
to actually provide its SSL capabilities.
In Panther, we enhanced things by
including S/MIME capabilities.
We were fairly rudimentary.
They basically only allow access
of S/MIME to one identity for
a particular mail account.
But basically, it all just plain worked,
and it worked within the framework
of our X.509 and PKI subsystem.
In Tiger, we started off with
smart card integration.
We'd actually been supporting smart cards
since Jaguar or so through our PCSC stack
and the muscle card subsystems.
But in Tiger,
we decided what our feature would
be is to actually support them as if
they're keychains so they actually
fit into the way that we manage
PKI capabilities on the system itself.
Other things that happened during Tiger,
actually mid-release,
the iChat folks included the capabilities
for encrypted iChat that once again
exploited mostly our CMS libraries
that were developed by SMIME.
VPN and AirPort also work
with our PKI capabilities,
and since of course we're enabled
through smart cards as keychains,
that functionality was there as well.
So now, the next step for us is to
include signed applications.
The ability to actually sign
applications here at Apple,
deliver them to a customer system,
and when you or your mom are
actually running Mail.App,
the application, when it asks,
for instance, for a keychain item,
will be able to say, can Mail.App,
actually signed by Apple,
actually get this keychain item?
And when we update that application,
it'll still be Mail.App, signed by Apple,
and the user won't be
bugged for another question.
We'll be able to springboard
this into other technologies,
like I said, MCX and parental controls,
we'll be able to actually
solidly identify applications.
And we have a lot of ideas for future
use of this technology as well.
So,
my lead architect for the security group,
Perry 'the Cynic' Kiehtreiber,
will be doing a presentation
now on signed applications,
how we did it, and everything else.
Perry.
Give me that thing.
Live?
Good.
OK.
I just put up the big
picture to scare you all.
Don't worry about it.
I'll talk you through
it a little bit later.
What am I going to tell you?
I'm going to tell you
what this is all about.
I'm going to tell you what it can
do for you and for the system.
I'll tell you what it won't
do for you in the system,
which is probably just as important.
I'll let you know what we expect
you to do for Leopard and what
you could get out of this,
depending on your situation.
So what does it do?
It essentially takes your code,
your application, your bundles,
your tools,
and puts a digital seal on them that
allows modifications to be detected.
So think of it as sort of freezing your
application in a container of sorts.
It says here,
"Provably seal it," because the system
can figure out when the seal's broken,
when your code has been modified.
Then,
we bind the seal to a digital identity.
That's your digital identity or the
identity of whoever made the program.
In addition,
what the code signing system allows
you to do or anybody else to do is
to express requirements of various
nature that can be placed on code.
Basically,
a set of conditions that need to be
satisfied before the code is allowed
to do something or get something or
otherwise proceed with its operation.
Now, on the other side of the game,
of course, we have the functionality
to verify the seal,
to identify the digital
identity that did the signing,
and to evaluate these constraints,
these conditions.
What doesn't it do?
This is an identification facility.
It helps everybody involved figuring
out the identity of a piece of code and
whether it is still intact or whether it
has been modified or otherwise subverted.
Using this API or signing your
applications by itself doesn't give
your code the ability to do anything
that it isn't already able to do.
In that, it's very much like
the authorization APIs,
if you've ever used those.
They are not there to give you
the capability to do something.
They are there to validate
whether a piece of code has
the right to do something.
CodeSign Inc.
won't do anything about the bugs that
are in the code because it doesn't
actually watch your code running.
It just tells you whether that's
the code that the manufacturer made.
So just because something's
signed doesn't mean that
there aren't any bugs in it.
I know that's a horrible surprise.
And CodeSign Inc.
doesn't actually protect you
against trusting the wrong code or
trusting the wrong manufacturer.
If you tell the system that you are
willing to run this Mail.app made by
Hacker Inc., then the system will go,
"Okay, I'll run it for you.
You said so."
I've been told to tell you that this
is not a copy protection solution,
and in fact it isn't, sort of.
It does help you protect
the integrity of your code.
So if your worry is that
somebody will go in,
crawl into your code,
and hack it around to turn
off stuff you put in there,
code signing will help you.
It doesn't do anything about
people taking that code,
taking it elsewhere,
and running it elsewhere.
That's not its job,
that's not what it's for.
So if there is stuff in your
code that you're worrying
about people hacking around on,
this is great for you.
But copy protection, this isn't.
And just like anything else we're doing,
unfortunately, it's not bloody magic.
It's not going to solve
all of your problems.
It's just one little piece, well, okay,
one medium-sized piece,
that's going to help
make the world safer.
So let me walk you through
the basic scenario.
Here's what's happening.
You take your code.
Nobody cares whether this is Xcode,
except, of course, Apple.
You're supposed to use Xcode.
But make files will work.
Doesn't matter.
And if you're making an application,
you have an Info.plist.
You have resources.
You put them all together
with your build tool.
And eventually,
you arrive at this beautifully
bundled up application with the right
icon and the right configuration
and all the localizations.
And it's beautiful.
That's what you'd normally ship.
Well, actually, in addition,
you're going to take a digital
identity in a keychain,
because that's where they go.
And you're going to feed this
final code of yours and the
identity into the codesign command.
That's a new command.
It's in your seed,
so you can play around with it.
It's a command line tool.
I hope that doesn't scare you too much.
What codesign does is it adds
information to your bundle.
It creates a couple of files.
It will also,
at least in the final version,
rewrite your executable somewhat.
And the result is very much
an application or a tool
or a bundle as the input.
It behaves exactly the same as
far as the system is concerned.
But it's now signed.
So there is extra stuff in it.
Then you take that and you ship it
pretty much the way you've always done.
And the codesigning machine absolutely
does not care how you ship this.
You can, you know, just do it.
You can ship installers.
You can use online software updaters.
You can use binary diffs and put
it back together at the other end.
The only thing we care about is
that when you're done doing your
delivery at the user system,
it's exactly the same thing
that you started with.
And then somebody, you hope,
will run this on the user system.
Now this is a really important point.
Code signing is about running code.
This is not about stuff
sitting on the hard drive.
Code signing will help you
verify things on the disk,
but that's not its primary function.
The primary function of code
signing functionality is to work
with code that's actually running.
You make calls into a verification API,
give it handles for the running code,
the process, whatever else it is,
and out pops an outcome
which is pretty much either,
yep, it's there,
this is really its identity,
and these are the conditions
that you placed in it,
and they're fine,
or you get an astonishing
variety of error codes that
tell you that things aren't so,
and that something means that this piece
of code really can't be identified.
Amen.
I'll try to show you
what this really means.
I hope nobody here is scared of
terminal and the command line.
Demo system, please.
Thank you.
All right.
So as I said,
there's a new command called code sign.
It has a man page,
so if you don't mind that kind of thing,
go read it.
It'll explain everything to you.
And I made a little
program called CSTest,
one of those things that only lives
to demonstrate what's going on here.
Right now, since I just built it,
CSTest isn't signed.
So code sign dash v does a
verification of the code signature,
and well, it's not signed.
So just for the few of you who have
never been annoyed by keychain calls,
let me show you what happens
when a program isn't signed.
Let's make a little keychain item here,
call it foo, doesn't much matter.
And one of the few things that
CSTest knows how to do is it
can retrieve a keychain item.
You've all seen this dialogue.
This is the, hey, no,
this CSTest program has never
tried to access this item before.
Do you really want to give it access?
And if you click on always allow,
then the system remembers
that from now on,
CSTest is allowed access
to the keychain item.
And if you do this again,
then you don't get the dialogue again,
thankfully.
And everything's cool.
That is,
until you want to change something.
I mean, we all have been through this.
This is the source of CSTest.
And somebody just told you
to change the program to,
I don't know, put a disclaimer in.
So we've rebuilt CSTest.
It now puts the disclaimer out.
Well, isn't that a beautiful dialogue?
This is the best the system can
do in Tiger to tell you that,
well, CSTest has changed.
It's the same name that it used to have,
but it's not the same program anymore,
and what do you want to do about this?
And there is this change all
button that basically says,
I know what I'm doing.
It's still the same program.
And that tells the system to remember
that the old one and the new one are sort
of the same as far as you're concerned,
and now we're okay again until
we change the program again.
Which is very annoying,
particularly when it happens to 25
keychain items in your keychain.
Not good.
So, what can we do?
Well, we can sign CSTest.
The -s takes an argument that is the
identity that you're going to use.
Since it's in the keychain,
we have to unlock the keychain
that happens to contain this.
And now we can verify it.
This is a Unix style command,
so if it doesn't say anything,
that's good.
If that bothers you,
add more -v options and it starts
saying lots of things that just
tell you that the world is good.
So, let's try this again now with,
just to be fair,
a different keychain item.
Let's call it test.
And now we're trying to access test.
Yes, it's okay.
Take access.
So here.
And you know how these marketeers are.
The disclaimer wasn't
really disclaiming enough.
They need a strict disclaimer.
Okay, so here is CSTest,
which now has the strict disclaimer.
And since we're now living
in the code signing world,
let's sign it again.
New version of your program.
New signed version of your program.
So let's access test and oh, no dialogue.
Let me tell you what really changed here.
I mean, the dialogue went away
and the user is happy.
You don't get tech support
calls from users saying,
"What is that dialogue and does
this mean that you are attacking my
system?" But what really changed here
under the hood in the system as a
whole is something really fundamental.
In the old version,
the system looked at the program
on the user's system using a hash,
but that's sort of an
implementation detail.
But it basically looked at the
program on the user's system
and remembered that program.
And when you shipped an update,
it was just a different program.
It sort of kind of knows
that it's the same name,
but that, of course, can be faked easily,
so it can't rely on this.
So in order to figure out whether
that new program is really supposed
to behave like the old program
as far as security is concerned,
it has to ask you.
It doesn't know any better.
In the new universe, with code signing,
the signing is done
When you make your program
before you ship it.
So rather than comparing the
programs on the user's system,
what it's really doing is
it's taking your word for it.
When you sign a program
and you say this is CSTest,
okay,
so what we remember is that a program
called CSTest signed by you is
allowed to access this keychain item.
If you make an update and
you sign it and you ship it,
it's still a program signed
by you called CSTest.
There's no question about here.
There's no uncertainty.
It's the same thing.
It's the same program because you
said so and you're the manufacturer.
So this is really what's going on here.
Okay, well, we're Apple,
so let's do something with an actual
application that looks graphical.
Again,
this thing really doesn't do anything
other than demonstrate things.
This is freshly built,
so of course it's not signed.
But, you know,
just like you can sign a tool,
you can sign an application.
The checkboxes here are
simply the program calling
the verification API itself.
Normally you don't do this
because you generally assume
that you yourself are okay,
and if you aren't okay,
you can't trust yourself
figuring out whether you're okay.
So in reality,
you call this on other people's code.
But for demonstration purposes,
this is easy.
What you have here is we signed it,
it's validly signed, and well,
this button here basically
just does the same thing that
the command line tool did.
It fetches a keychain item.
And of course,
since the CS test application
is a different program,
we get the always allow, and okay,
it worked, and well,
it still works because now we're
on the access control list.
So one of the things that happens,
remember,
code signing is about running code.
In addition to the files on the disk,
there's a dynamic state of
validity that can be cleared.
A program can lose its identity
when it does certain things.
The kernel keeps track
of this for processes,
and the idea is that once
you've lost your identity,
you can't ever get it back.
It's sticky.
Most of the time a program will
actually do this to itself.
"Hmm, I'm not sure if I should load this.
I'm not quite sure if I'm still
going to be myself when I load this,
but okay, I'll tell the kernel
that I'm no longer me,
and then I can load this and run off,
but the rest of the system will
now know that I've lost it.
If you quit me and relaunch me,
I'll be myself again until I do
something questionable." So we
can turn the valid bit off,
which behind the scenes is making this,
you know, "I'm no longer me" call.
And at that point, well,
you're back to this dialogue,
because the system now doesn't think
that CSTest really is CSTest anymore.
It might be, but we're not sure.
And as I said, you can't get your dynamic
validity back except by,
well, relaunching yourself,
at which point you're fine again.
Now,
what is it that we're protecting here?
We're protecting against
modification of the code itself.
You've seen that in
the command line tool.
I could do the same disclaimer thing,
of course, here.
I could show you that
I can modify the nib,
and it would change the program.
The nib's part of what's protected.
But let's look at something perhaps
a little bit more interesting.
The Info.plist is
protected by code signing.
So if you're going into--
This info.p list here,
and you are maliciously
trying to change something,
like I'm going to make
this thing accept...
The application signatures
that it shouldn't,
see here, the verification API figured
out that the code's changed.
It's still signed,
but it's not validly signed, and again,
well, system knows you're
not really you anymore.
The sort of cool thing is that it really
doesn't much care how you got there,
so if you change the Info.plist back,
then it's valid again.
Everything's fine.
Another thing that you are
being protected is resources.
Come on.
Do what I mean.
There's not much resources in here.
Let's say I am adding a resource.
It notices.
Same thing happens if
you remove a resource.
You know, if I took the icon away,
if I modified it.
Basically,
your resources have to be exactly
the resources that were there
when the program was signed
or the signature's invalid.
Okay, this is the basic integrity thing,
and if you don't care about any of
that other identification stuff,
the one thing to take home is
once you sign your programs,
you'll never have to worry about
people hacking around with your
program and you not having any way
of figuring out that that happened.
If you sign it, and somebody gives you a
tech support call and says,
"Your program's misbehaving," tell
them to code-sign -v your program,
and if that gives an error message,
it was modified.
You won't necessarily
know who modified it,
whether it's the user himself or somebody
made a hacked version of your program,
but at least you know it isn't
your program that's misbehaving,
it's some mutant offspring of it.
Okay, let me show you one more thing.
Here's the .mac preferences,
which we all know and love.
I'm showing you .mac because the .mac
password is such a loved password.
Everybody wants to use it.
There's like 16 different
Apple applications now that all
want to use your .mac password.
Mail wants to.
iChat wants to.
And half of those have little
demons in the background.
So what really happens when you are
creating a .mac password with one of
the Apple applications is there's a
little SPI call that makes a really,
really big access control list.
It takes a little while
because it's a really,
really big access control list here.
And you can just tell this is a
who's who of Apple applications.
Now, all of these know that they want
to work with your .Mac password,
and there's basically this list
of all of these applications.
And if Apple ever makes a new one,
and God knows we do all the time,
it gets added to this list eventually.
Meantime,
you get one of those nice dialogues
that says the Frobos background super
app wants access to your .Mac password,
and you're kind of going,
"What is that?" Well,
Apple invented that in
the last software update.
Oh, and here's a new one.
This is something that we
added with code signing.
Rather than just having
a list of applications,
each of them separately enumerated,
we now have application groups.
And any application in this group
automatically has access to this item.
So what I can actually do, if I want to,
is I can take this list here
and just take them all off the--
[Transcript missing]
How about mail?
This is my .mac account and I, no,
I don't really,
I haven't actually checked my email there
for a while so it's probably a long list.
Syndication agent.
That's exciting.
But the idea is we're online here.
It's still chewing through my email.
As I said,
I haven't checked this in a while,
and it's full of spam.
But Mail.app has access to this password,
not because it's on some explicit list,
but because it's in the
.mac application group.
So, how do you add something
to an application group?
Good question.
Let's put CSTest into the
.mac application group.
Actually, we're almost in here.
What you do is you edit the Info.plist,
which you've all done before,
and it's really quite simple.
You add an application group.
entry.
And in the case of .Mac,
the name of the application
group happens to be .Mac.
Of course,
editing the Info.plist invalidated
the signatures,
so if we now went and
tried to access Perry,
which happens to be my password,
that doesn't work.
You're not really you, are you?
So let's sign it.
I haven't used that
keychain for five minutes.
The dash F, incidentally,
just-- if you're trying to sign an
application that's already signed,
it won't let you unless you say,
I know what I'm doing here.
So that has regenerated the signature.
And if we now try to access
the dot Mac password,
it worked.
slides, please.
And I know, this isn't quite as good
as pulsing Aqua buttons.
But we're the infrastructure group.
OK.
We're calling this code signing
even though the session is called
application signing because this is
more than just application signing.
We've already talked about tools.
What we're planning to do is include
in this notion of code you can
sign pretty much anything that you
intuitively think might be code.
Single executables, application bundles,
but also plugin bundles, frameworks,
libraries, scripts, applets, widgets.
Pretty much anything you think is code,
anything that gets run
or runs on the system.
Now, it's going to take time to get all
of that covered under the umbrella,
but the architecture is
there to cover it all.
So that's why we call it code signing.
If you're making universal binaries,
and you all do I hope,
signing happens on a
per-architecture basis.
So if you make something
that's four-way universal,
then you'll basically get four
code signatures embedded there.
The advantage is that if you run
around and you thin the executable,
every single architecture that
you pull out and stick somewhere
will still be validly signed.
So if you have installers that
take a universal binary and,
you know, just pull out the right
architecture for some reason,
that's okay.
Code signing will still work.
Now here's one really important point.
I'm going to tell you this three
times throughout the presentation
because it's really important.
Your code needs to be immutable.
It can't change on the user system.
And I don't care how it changes.
You can't have configuration files in
there that the user is supposed to edit.
You can't stick any preferences
of any kind into your app.
You can't ask the user to stuff
new icons into your application,
whether directly or
through some UI of yours.
It needs to be immutable.
Anything that changes on the user
system needs to be somewhere else.
And if you read the rules
and regulations of Mac OS X,
it'll tell you pretty explicitly
where that somewhere else is.
Preferences go into library preferences.
Support files go into library
application support and so on.
So your code needs to be immutable or
you're going to have trouble with this.
It just won't work for you.
Bad things will happen to you.
You'll be unhappy.
Your customers will be unhappy.
Don't do that.
So how do you sign code?
Because that is what we ask you to do.
Come Leopard,
we want you to just have this
extra step when you make your code,
your program, your applications,
before you ship them,
we want you to sign them.
And it's really easy.
You saw.
You run code sign.
You say, over there, you say, what with?
And there's a couple of other
optional stuff you can stuff in
if the circumstances warrant it,
but that's basically it.
It will modify your application,
your code, you take the result,
and you shove it into your, excuse me,
you insert it into your packaging
process just like you always do.
I told you I will tell you again.
So, it's okay to thin your
code after signing it,
and conversely you can use lipo
if you've ever heard of that to,
you know,
bunch more architectures into one file.
Since we're signing in things
individually per architecture,
the system really doesn't care.
And once you've signed your code,
you can do pretty much anything you
want with it that doesn't change it.
You can copy it, you can move it,
you can stick it on a file server,
you can put it in an installer,
and we don't care if it's
the Apple installer or
a third party installer.
You can cut it down the middle,
ship one half online and
the other half on a CD,
stick it back together on the other side.
It doesn't matter as long as when
you're done on the user system,
it's the same files in the
same order as you started with.
It's not okay to change your code,
and that includes our excellent
link edit commands like strip and
nm edit and all of the other ones.
And it is not okay to play with
the resources after you sign.
The resources are all sealed.
So if you have some kind of
post-production arrangement with some
other department or some other company,
get that done before you sign.
In particular, it also means you can't
take resources out.
It means that if you are doing
localization for some core language
set and then send it off to some
other company to add Korean and
South Vietnamese and whatever else,
when you get it back and
they've added their resources,
you need to resign.
When should you sign?
Well, obviously,
after you're done modifying it.
I've already told you three times now.
After you've gotten the
resources exactly right,
and this is sort of an important point,
after you've decided that this is good,
you can go off and sign almost anything.
The machinery doesn't care.
I mean, you use your digital identity as
long as you have it right there.
You can sign your program.
You can sign somebody else's program.
You can sign something
that erases the hard drive.
You wouldn't want something
that erases the hard drive
to go out after you sign it.
Because the signature basically says,
"Yeah, we like this.
This is us." No.
You may want to have an extra
step designed in there where after
you build something you test it.
Yeah, that's the word.
You test it and you actually make sure
it behaves like something that you are
proud of shipping and then you sign it.
That's probably the best way to do it.
Now that doesn't mean that you can't
sign stuff as part of your build
process if verifying signature is
something that is routinely done to you.
In which case, you might want to set up
two digital identities,
one for testing and one for shipment.
And obviously you want to sign
before you package it and ship it.
There's nothing again that
keeps people from signing
stuff on the end user system.
That's perfectly okay.
But it's not as good as
signing it in the system.
So, you're missing out on the point
where you make your applications.
Because the ceiling basically protects
against modification from the point where
you sign to the point where you verify.
If you sign on the end user system,
you're not protected against
modifications during shipment,
people hacking your installers,
people misdirecting software updaters,
that kind of thing.
So, you're sort of missing on
half of this immutability gig.
Also,
anybody who signs anything on the end
user system is going to have to have
the same key on the end user system.
And another important point about
using these digital identity
things is that you keep those
on your computer where you work.
The end user never gets to see those.
The end user couldn't sign those with
your key because he's never got it.
This is important.
So we've been talking about
these identity things,
and while those of you who know what
X.509 means vaguely will probably
have figured out what this is by now.
For those of you who have no idea
what a digital certificate is,
let me just give you the
three-sentence summary.
It's a cryptographic key,
which is sort of a binary bit bucket,
and a digital certificate,
which is another binary bit bucket
that you either make with something
called a certificate assistant,
something we ship with the system,
or if you are big in corporate,
you can ask VeriSign or other
companies to make you one.
You stick those into a keychain,
or you import them into a
keychain if you already have them.
And from that moment on,
it just shows up as an identity,
or if you prefer, my certificates.
And as long as you carry that keychain
around and you have the password for the
keychain handy when you try to use it,
it'll just work.
You can make your own
code signing certificates.
We don't insist that you get
certificates from big companies
that want lots of money from you.
So that's your choice.
Hey, we think of you, folks, we do.
If you have a code signing certificate,
say, from VeriSign,
one of those things that work
with Microsoft Authenticode that
happens to also work with our stuff.
So if you've already invested
the Big Moolah for just the
right kind of code signing cert,
you don't need a separate one for us.
Just use it.
It's OK, we don't mind.
We don't sell these things to you.
We're not planning on
selling them to you.
It's not really our business.
Why bother?
Do think a little bit,
particularly if you're more than
one employee in your company,
think a little bit about who's got the
authority to actually do the signing.
Just as I said,
only sign what you're proud of.
You may want to make sure that if
you've got 2,000 employees that not
anybody can just go and sign anything.
How paranoid you want to be about
this is really not for me to say.
It's sort of a corporate decision.
So if you actually have
departments that worry about
the legal side of these things,
you may want to give them a ring
and tell them that this is coming
and tell them to think about it.
Usually the legal folks think
about these things for months.
So if you think you might run into this,
start talking to them now.
Usually this takes way longer than
fixing bugs or implementing features.
Okay, code requirements.
If you remember at the start,
one of the pieces of functionality
that code signing has is it
lets you express restrictions,
constraints, conditions,
requirements on code.
It lets you say things like,
"Must be called mail.app" and
"Can be signed by" "Must be signed
by Apple." As a matter of fact,
you know,
if you're talking about Apple's mail.app,
that's pretty much the
requirement you're going to use.
"Must be called mail.app and must be
signed by Apple." Or if you prefer,
"Apple must say that
this is called mail.app."
Now,
what we've done is we've invented this
thing called a code signing requirement,
or just requirement.
And we've given it a generic
form that you can use using an
API pretty much in all situations.
There's a binary form,
which is just a binary blob with
no pointers or anything inside.
So you can store this anywhere you want.
You can stick it in the database,
put it in your own data structures,
you know, wrap a CFData or NSData around
it and stick it in a dictionary.
We don't care,
just as long as you keep that
blob from being modified until
you feed it back into the API.
There's a text form for it, which,
as you'd expect, is a little bit geekish.
It's a little programming
language of sorts,
a really simple,
trivial programming language.
And, you know,
you can convert between the two,
of course.
So, remember this picture?
Let's go through it again,
but this time let's talk
about what requirements are.
So we have the signed code
on the end user system,
and there is a way to derive
requirements from the code.
I'll talk a little bit
later about how this works.
It's called the designated requirement.
If you happen to want to derive
a requirement from the code
back home where you made it,
that's fine too.
Remember, it's the same code,
so you'll get the same
requirement out of it anyway.
Usually,
you want to store these somewhere
in some configuration database,
in some preferences file,
configuration file of some sort.
And as I said, you're supposed to store
it as a binary blob,
so it doesn't really
matter how you do that.
NSData, database entries, we don't care.
Turn a requirement into a binary blob,
store it anywhere you want,
get it back when you need it,
turn it back into an API type,
and off you go.
And, well, the code gets run,
as it always does,
and I sort of half cheated,
because when you are actually
feeding it to the verification API,
usually you also feed a requirement in.
What you are verifying then is,
as before, that the identity of the
running code is still intact,
that it hasn't been violated in some way,
but also that the requirements that
you pass to the API are satisfied.
So, you know, the difference is that if
there weren't any requirements,
then feeding, say,
a running Mail.app to the verification
machinery would just verify that
it's a properly signed application,
which you could make.
You could call it Mail.app,
nobody would know,
but if you add a requirement that says,
"Must be signed by Apple,"
and it's called Mail.app,
then now you can't fake it anymore,
because Apple won't give
you their signing key,
I hope.
Outcome,
which now can include "doesn't satisfy
requirements", and there you go.
Just to give you sort of an
overview of what you can do
with the requirements language,
the most important one is
constraints on the signing chain,
the certificate chain.
And most of the time what you
do is you constrain the anchor
of the certificate chain,
which is essentially a constraint on
the authority that built the digital
identity that ended up signing this.
There's a special one for Apple,
of course.
Hey, we're Apple.
But any certificate can be expressed
in the requirement language internally.
It's stored as a hash of the certificate.
So if you made your own,
it'll just end up in there as a
hash of the certificate authority.
Identifier.
I didn't talk about this before,
but when CodeSign goes off and
builds the code signature data,
it embeds as an identifier
string in the signature data.
This identifier string is by default
derived from the bundle identifiers.
So if you are following the rules and
you're making an application bundle
or a plug-in bundle or something,
then you'll automatically
get something reasonable like
com.yourcompanyname.something.
If you are signing tools,
by default what you'll
get is the file name,
which is usually not what you want.
And there is an option to CodeSign
to make up your own identifier,
com.yourcompany.whateveryouwant,
and feed that in.
So the identifier is the other
element of typical code constraints.
As I said, signed by Apple,
and identifier is com.apple.mail,
would be the canonical code signing
constraint for the mail application.
Or in your case, it would be signing
anchor is your anchor,
and name is whatever you said it is.
You can check arbitrary contents of
the Info.plist for anything you want,
either something that's
always in the Info.plist,
like the NSBundle identifier,
CFBundle identifier these days,
or something that you decide
to add to your Info.plist.
And as a matter of fact,
that's how application
groups are implemented.
If you remember what I did
editing the Info.plist,
I just added an entry called,
application group,
and said the value must be .mac.
And that's all that you do when you
check for application group membership.
You check that there's an
application group entry,
and its value is .mac.
And you can of course combine them with
logical operators like 'and'. We are
going to add more elements to this
language and if you feel like there is
one that you think would be really cool,
then let us know.
Now is a good time because, well,
we're still defining this.
So these are requirements that
typically the caller of an API imposes
on running code by someone else.
We tend to call them external
requirements because the guy who
imposes the requirement is different
from the guy who made the application.
It's you want to check somebody
else's application or somebody else
is trying to check your application.
Now there are situations where you,
the application maker,
actually have requirements that
you want to embed in your code.
A very typical example is if
you can't trust your libraries,
who can you trust?
So you may want to say,
"I really only want to be linked
against genuine Apple libraries." Or,
"I think I should only
load my own plugins,
the ones made by myself,
because who knows what the
other ones will do to me."
These are called internal requirements
because they are directly embedded
in your code signing information.
They are automatically sealed by
the same mechanism that seals the
code and the info peelers and the
resources and everything else.
If you have those,
you feed them as one of those
optional arguments to the code
sign command and read the man page.
That explains how you can do it.
Another form of internal requirement
that's just sort of hovering here
as a teaser is hosts and guests.
Well, let me tell you that much.
Remember how I said that code can be,
you know, not just executables,
macho binaries, applications,
but it can be scripts, other stuff that's
being run by other code?
There is a part of the code
signing architecture is a model
called the host and guest model,
where you're basically having one
set of code running or interpreting
or supervising another set of code.
The supervisor is called a host,
the code that's being
supervised is a guest.
This mechanism allows you, us, together,
to extend the notion of code dynamically.
Anytime we want to add code as
defined by a particular interpreter
to also be code signable,
all we have to do is add, we hope,
a few little things to the
interpreter or supervisor.
And the script becomes code signable,
and the entire machinery that I've
described so far becomes available.
Keychain items could directly be
linked not just to the interpreter,
but to the interpreted code.
And all the other applications
that use the code signing
APIs automatically extend to now
be able to identify these scripts.
Resources don't get handled
by internal requirements.
Resources are directly sealed
with the signing identity that
signs the rest of the code,
because generally you don't
want to be able to dynamically
change your resources on the fly.
Besides,
it's a heck of a lot more efficient.
And there's this very,
very special requirement that we
call the designated requirement.
One of the most common gestures
in practice is the user pointing a
program at something on disk and say,
"That program there." Now,
if you're thinking of, say,
parental controls where the
user is browsing through the
application folder and going,
"Oh, mail's okay.
Safari is, eh, okay.
Disk utility,
eh." So when the user points an
application on disk and the API caller
wants to remember that application,
that thing, that mail here,
what it needs is a code
requirement that will later,
when passed to the verification API,
can verify whether this is the same
thing that we're looking at right now.
That's called a designated
requirement because from the
point of view of the application,
it's designating this
particular requirement as,
"This is how you can sign a
program." how you can tell me again.
This is how you can identify me again.
This is me.
And there is an API call,
SecCopy Designated Requirement
happens to be what it's called,
that produces an API requirement
object based on a code identifier.
The system will make one up on the fly,
and the current form,
which we don't promise
will stay the same exactly,
is simply signed by the guy
who signed the application,
and the identifier is what
the identifier of the code is.
Which again,
in the case of Apple's Mail.App,
leads us to the anchor is Apple,
and the identifier is com.apple.mail.
If for some reason you don't like that,
and you want a different
designated requirement,
you can just explicitly
stick one into your code,
again as an optional
argument to code sign,
and that's what will be returned.
This is a really,
really short glimpse into
what the API looks like.
If you are desperately scrambling
through the system headers at this point,
you won't find the code signing
headers in your WWDC preview
because we haven't decided whether
to actually make them public yet.
We are not sure how many of you will
actually want to call the API as
opposed to just sign your applications.
Don't misunderstand me here.
You are all expected to
sign your applications,
no exceptions.
But some of you may actually want
to be on the other side of this gig.
Some of you may want to
identify applications,
remember the identity of applications.
If you want to do that,
you need to call the API.
[Transcript missing]
We have, well,
let's get to the next slide.
The APIs are very much
based on core foundation.
As a matter of fact, our API handles are
core foundation objects.
So you can use CF retain and
CF release and stick them in
CFDictionary's and all of this stuff.
And just, you know, they behave normal.
They behave as by now you
should expect them to behave.
The code is part of
the security framework.
So you'd be linking
against security framework.
We have three API object types,
a SecCodeRef for
identifying running code.
That's what you usually use.
A SecStaticCodeRef is
for code on the disk,
sort of like a bundle,
but includes things that
aren't bundles like,
you know, tools and scripts and
other single file things.
And a SecRequirementRef,
which is a code requirement.
And that's all I'm really going
to tell you about the API.
So if you want to know more, go ask,
please.
A couple of notes on what's in the seed.
This is a big thing.
We're still implementing it.
We're not done implementing it.
We probably won't be done
implementing it for a long time.
But what you have on your
DVDs is something that works.
It's self-consistent.
I mean, that was a WWDC seed that
I was demonstrating on.
The data format is going to change,
so something you sign today will not
work to be verified when Leper chips.
So don't worry about it.
Just sign it again when you're
getting ready to get real about this.
One little warning: If you are signing
individual single files,
don't do this to files
that have resource forks,
because right now we're sort
of stealing the resource fork
to store the signing data.
That's not a permanent condition.
We're...
That will be fixed soon.
Just until then, don't do that.
One difference to the final Leopard
version is that in the seed,
and only in the seed,
you can use any digital identity that
can sign anything at all to sign code.
We're basically not checking the
marker that says "is valid for
code signing." Primarily so you
have an easier time playing around.
If you don't have a
code signing identity,
well,
if you've got one for signing emails,
it'll work.
And one other caveat for reasons of
we're not quite done implementing it,
if you're calling the
dynamic verification API,
you have to be rude.
Sorry, that'll get fixed.
And the API is not there, officially.
What will we have in Leopard?
What you've seen, obviously.
We already have the keychain machinery
hooked up to the code signing APIs,
so keychain items created or added to an
application that is signed will remember
the application by its code signature,
which means that you're going to
lose all of those precious dialogues
you've been coming to expect.
MCX and other parental control
features will use this,
and they intend to restrict
what can launch based on this.
So one of the better reasons to get
serious about signing your applications
for Leopard is that you may otherwise
run into situations where grandma
or the IT manager simply won't allow
anything to launch that isn't signed.
So keep that in mind.
There's also a firewall feature that
assigns essentially port configurations
based on an application's identity.
That too is probably going to be much
more painful if you are not signed.
Recognizing code, either your own code or
somebody else's code,
that's the other side of the game.
That's where you would
be calling the API.
As I said,
it's not currently decided whether
the API will be officially released
as an API for Leopard or not.
If you're interested,
talk to your developer evangelist.
Hi, Craig.
So what do you do now?
Well, let me tell you one last time,
make sure your code is immutable.
If your code doesn't work right,
if it's stuck in a read-only
disk image or on a CD-ROM,
then it's not right.
Fix it.
And that's not just for code signing.
There is a raftload of other
applications that don't take easily and
happily to application self-modifying.
I'm not the first one to tell you,
I'm sure you've heard it before,
if you're still sort of kind
of dragging around and going,
"Yeah, we'll get around to it,
maybe next year," that would be a
really good time to get around to it.
And in particular, configurations,
preferences,
and other configuration data really
has well-defined good places to go.
Just, you know,
read the good documentation.
It'll tell you where to put them.
There are even functions all over
the place in Core Foundation and
in Cocoa that make it very easy
to put them in the right spot.
So please do.
If you feel like it,
make yourself a digital identity.
Go around, sign your programs, and,
you know, just have fun.
A signed program shouldn't behave any
different from an unsigned program,
except when it's making keychain calls,
and it should behave somewhat
better than an unsigned program.
So, in particular,
if you are calling the keychain APIs,
go sign your programs and see
if something weird happens.
And I'm not talking
about missing dialogues.
I'm talking about stuff
that isn't working.
Let us know.
You know, it's new.
And absolutely do plan to sign
your code in the Leopard timeframe.
There's no big bang here.
We're going to let you know in the
release notes of some developer
seed when the former change happens.
After that,
you can go off and ship signed
applications before Leopard ships,
and Tiger just won't notice.
It'll ignore the signatures,
and it's a little bit bigger.
It's about half a percent bigger.
But there's no reason why you have to
wait until Leopard's in the stores and
people salivate before you can actually
go off and sign your applications.
And, well,
let me tell you that one again.
If you are a medium or large-sized
company with departments
that have responsibilities,
then you probably want to find
out what department has the
responsibility for digital identities
and tell them that they need
to make a decision here or there.
Because they'll probably go into kind
of a shell-shocked state for a moment.
And then they'll ask
you a lot of questions.
And then time passes,
and then eventually you'll
get your signing identity.
That's Leopard.
This is a big feature.
It's a really big feature.
It's one of those features we
could never do if we'd had to
get it done in one release,
so we won't.
What are we planning to do going forward?
What's sort of the bigger idea here?
Again, we're trying to extend the
notion of code to everything that
reasonably could be considered code.
And it's a wavy line,
it's a blurred line.
Is an Emacs initialization file code?
Turns out yes,
because it's a Lisp interpreter.
Is your application's configuration file,
is your application's preference code?
Probably not, but what do I know?
It's your application.
If it happens to have a
language interpreter in it,
maybe it is.
But what we will do is push that
notion of code outwards and include
more and more different kinds of code
as the requirements are coming up.
Obviously,
the ones that are bigger security holes
and the ones that are more interesting
will get their codeness first.
And maybe others, you know,
will take five years,
but we're definitely
going in that direction.
Crunchy shell and chewy inside, yeah.
Traditionally, security has been done
with crunchy shells.
You put sort of a layer out around your
code and you defend yourself vigorously
against the evil that comes through.
You check all of your
arguments at the APIs.
And then in the rest of your code,
you sort of assume that it's OK,
because it went through
the crunchy shell intact.
And that works decently well.
It works better than not checking at all,
obviously.
But it means that you only
need to get one hole in the
shell and then in the inside,
and ooh,
I can do whatever I want in here.
We'd like, going forward,
to instead have program systems be
sort of groups of subsystems that
actually identify and defend themselves,
not just from the evil outside,
but also from each other.
So the chewy inside means that once
you've actually intruded successfully
into some piece of the whole puzzle,
you don't automatically just bounce
around and take the rest of them,
because there's multiple
sort of membranes between the
different pieces of the system.
And code signing actually helps you
in that modifications of one piece can
be detected by the next piece over.
So the classic attack of, great,
I'm inside.
I'm going to buffer overflow,
and I'm going to modify,
and I'm going to modify the code,
and it'll just do something
completely different.
That'll be a bit harder.
[Transcript missing]
There's always more information.
Here's Craig.
He's waving his hand at me and
telling me that I'm slightly
exceeding my allotted time.
In case you're wondering what those
code signing certificates are,
RFC 2459 explains it to
you in excruciating detail.
There is one URL, the second one here,
that explains how you can put info.plists
into your single file executables.
In case you didn't know that,
you can do that.
Yes, you can.
And since code signing is based on
things found in your Info.plist,
you may want to do that,
even if you don't right now.